# Context

These guidelines apply to most if not all processes covered by this library.

# Words to Live By

## Define your Terms

The history of productivity is a story of the development of concrete and
abstract tools. These tools increase the power and/or precision of individuals
and groups. Group productivity is almost exclusively a product of cooperation
between individuals. That cooperation depends on the participants relying on
each other to execute the duties of their role within the relationship. That
reliance requires a level of trust, and that trust depends on a common
language.

At the risk of wandering off into the worlds of philosophy and linguistics, a
language or protocol consists of an exchange of symbols whose meanings to the
participants are sufficiently similar to enable the participants to form
agreements to cooperate. When the participants cannot agree on the nature of
the world and their relationship to each other within that world, they cannot
rely on each other to participate functionally in a cooperative relationship.

No matter directly you are interacting with another participant, it is
important to seek to ensure quality communications, which starts with agreeing
on the meanings of the symbols you exchange.

In the Ops Dojo, this is the purpose of the Lexicon.

## Good Intentions Don't Work, Mechanisms Do

This is something Jeff Bezos said [citation needed] in the context of
developing strategies for increasing human precision through formalism and
mechanisms.

This is one of the purposes of automation, for example. Operators of the
highest caliber are still human. Automation trades agility and flexibility for
reduced risk.

## Humility and Skepticism Promote Innovation

This is also known as "have you tried turning it off and back on again?"

## Take Baby Steps

This is primarily a feature of Risk Management, but it applies to everything
to some degree. Adding scope, interface, participants, products and other
facets all necessarily increase risk. By taking on problems in small pieces
the cost of failures are limited and whatever is learned from surprises can be
applied to more efforts, increasing the value of the experience.

Deciding on the "right" step size is analogous to rock climbers deciding how
far apart to space their anchors. The closer they are, the more time they
spend attaching an detaching from the anchors and mounting new anchors if
necessary. The farther apart they space the anchors the more progress they
lose when they fall and the greater the risk of an equipment or human failure.

## Context Matters; Use Functional Thresholds

The ideal thresholds at any given time are a function of context. Context is
only unchanging on relatively small time scales or at highly abstract levels.
Static thresholds are fine for a first-pass/baby step, but thresholds defined
in terms of functions of context are more likely to be "right" over time. The
functions themselves will still need to be adjusted as you improve your system
modeling, but even those adjustments can eventually be made into higher-order
functions to increase the "intelligence" of your systems.

## Drain the Swamp

This is primarily an Operations topic, but it also applies to other human
endeavors. The phrase is a reference to the expression, "it's hard to remember
to drain the swamp when you're up to your ass in alligators." 

In this analogy, the swamp is what many refer to as "technical debt" and the
alligators are the consequences of that debt which make it seem impossible to
pay off. In these situations there is a strong temptation to abandon the swamp
in question and start anew in a dryer location. A fresh start is often very
expensive for an organization and is rarely as fresh as they anticipate.
Whatever system or cultural problems led to the situation will almost
certainly still persist through and undermine the fresh start.

Stephen Covey's "Seven Habits of Highly Effective People" describes the
problem in terms of "Production vs Production Capacity". Investing entirely in
Production Capacity starves the organization of Production. Investing entirely
in Production prevents an organization from increasing its output to input
ratio. A balance must be struck and the optimum balance, like so many
parameters of improving human performance, changes with context.

## Chose Metrics Carefully

The ideal Metric is a single value accurately representing your success in
fulfilling a goal. Beyond the simplest goals (prevent resource exhaustion),
such ideal metrics rarely exist, so we use multiple non-ideal metrics and
continuously improve them as we gain insight into the problem space.

Poorly chosen metrics will lead an organization to decisions which actually
hurt performance. For example, if your goal is to bring heavy cream home as
quickly as possible, you might choose "walking speed" as a metric to be
increased as much as possible to reduce round-trip time. This metric fails to
take into account the paths taken, the risks associated with walking too
quickly and the impact of walking style on the milk. You might reduce your
delivery time by 50% but end up bringing home butter instead of cream.
