# Advice for fresh meat

- "The Two Things"
  - The Customer is Always Right  : Otherwise you wouldn't need them
  - The Customer is Usually Wrong : Otherwise they wouldn't need you

- Asking for help
  - When
    - Next step seems risky or risk level is uncertain
    - Stuck on what appears to be a contradiction
      - Customer asking for the impossible
      - System behavior not explained by available models
  - How
    - Minimize impact on them
    - Provide as much relevant information as possible up front
    - Express your questions with as little assumption about the answer as possible
    - Often preparation will reveal the answer before asking for help

- Have your own goals and plans

# Definitions

## Science

Science converts phenomena into predictive Models. The investment of Time into
Science increases the value of future time spent informed by Models that time
produces.

## Technology

Technology creates Tools from Science.

A Tool is a repeatable solution to a class of problems.

## Engineering

Engineering solves specific problems with Tools.

## Operations

Operations is a continuous process of developing and managing (or 'operating')
systems which provide a Service to a Customer. It is a subset of Business.

# Minimalism

Operations is an art of laziness.

As a facet of the game that is life, Operations seeks to minimize costs.
Everything, even inaction, will have a cost. gg

# The Seven Habits

## Be Proactive

Don't wait for monitoring, vendors or customers to tell you about challenges
and opportunities. Strive to reserve 10% of your time for identifying and
addressing such challenges and opportunities before anyone else notices them.

## Start With the End in Mind

While there is such a thing as too much planning, the better you understand
and document your ideal end conditions, the easier and cheaper it is to make
the best choices along the way.

## Put First Things First

You don't have to do everything, just the next thing.

At any given instant there are a limited number of choices available to you,
each of which will take you closer or farther from your identified End in
Mind. You will never know in advance exactly how each choice will affect your
progress; your best guess will necessarily suffice. It is, by definition, not
possible to improve on your best guess.

More often than many would predict, "Figure out the best next action" and
"chill" are sometimes the best next actions. The risk is that you will either
find yourself in Analysis Paralysis or miss out on a time-constrained
opportunity. This is one area where "Be Proactive" helps out: by performing
such analyses in advance, you can choose to spend less expensive time in these
ways.

## Seek First to Understand, Then to be Understood

This applies equally well to both systems and people.

Obviously any action taken to improve a system in complete ignorance of how
the system will respond to that action is of maximum possible risk. A given
investment of time in modeling a system and testing assumptions will pay out
as some degree of reduced risk.

## Think Win-Win or No Deal

## Synergize

## Sharpen the Saw

# The Variable Costs of Time

The cost of devoting time to a given activity depends on the time in question.

  - The cost of a person's time when they are impaired, such as having not
    rested, is higher. Or more accurately, the value of _their_ time when they
    are impaired is lower.
  - The cost of time increases in the face of a deadline
  - Spending time reducing the impact or urgency of a deadline may reduce that
    cost

